src/index.md, before:

# What's going on?

This is a freely available draft of the *GPU Handbook*, a quick-start guide into the world of General Purpose Graphics Processing Unit computation.

All of the written text on this site was created by [James Schloss](https://github.com/leios) and is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/legalcode).
This means that you are free to read, copy, modify, and remix any of the content here with a few key restrictions.
Namely, the new (derivative) work:
1. Cannot make money.
2. Must attribute me (James Schloss or Leios).
3. Must be available for free with the same Creative Commons license. In other words, derivatives of derivatives of this work cannot make money and also must attribute me (and any additional authors).

Obviously, it is a bit absurd to provide this book to everyone for free.
In doing so, it becomes much more difficult to traditionally publishing the book, so it is unlikely you will ever see this book in book stores any time soon.
That said, it *is* possible for me to self-publish the book so you can buy kindle and physical copies from Amazon.

Long story short, here is what I ask: **if you enjoy this book or the associated videos and livestreams, please consider purchasing it when it is officially released**.

On my end, I will set the prices so that I will receive 5 USD back from every sale.
I also promise that all the revenue will go directly into funding more projects from me (and my eventual team).
If there are enough books purchased, I plan to hire a distribution manager to help reduce the cost of each one as well.

I guess that's all for now.
Thanks for your interest in the novel and Leios Labs!

Peace,  
James (Leios)

[![CC BY NC SA](./content/cc/by-nc-sa.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

Commit message:

Chapter 1 (#1)
adding draft of intro chapter

src/index.md, after:

# What's going on?

When I started my PhD in 2014, it was fairly uncommon for programmers to use their Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) for any computation beyond what was necessary for gaming or some graphical applications.
The world has changed since then.
Nowadays, it feels like the GPU is the most important piece of hardware on any computational device (supercomputers, desktops, phones, etc).
Computer Generated Imagery (CGI) for movies and games have become almost photorealistic, and all of the necessary computation happens on the GPU.
The fastest supercomputers in the world run GPUs.
Machine learning models are trained using GPUs.
Everyone needs the GPU for *something*.

At the same time, there are very few good learning resources available to teach beginner programmers how to properly use their hardware.
So that's what this book is.
A gentle introduction to most of the programming concepts necessary to understand GPU computing through meaningful real-world applications.

All of the content on this site was created by [James Schloss (Leios)](https://github.com/leios).
The code is released under the MIT license, which means you can use it for virtually any purpose as long as you attribute me and you let everyone know that my code is freely available under the MIT license for use.
The text is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/legalcode).
This means that you are free to read, copy, modify, and remix any of the text here with a few key restrictions.
Namely, the new (derivative) work:
1. Cannot make money.
2. Must attribute me (James Schloss or Leios).
3. Must be available for free with the same Creative Commons license. In other words, derivatives of derivatives of this work cannot make money and also must attribute me (and any additional authors).

**if this book is useful for you, please consider purchasing it when it is officially released**.
Otherwise, please let me know if there are any typos, errors, or jank that you find along the way.

Thanks for reading and I hope the book helps you in some way!

Welcome to the world of General Purpose Graphics Processing Unit (GPGPU) computation.

Dr. James Schloss (Leios)

[![CC BY NC SA](./content/cc/by-nc-sa.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)
